ACQUIRE RULES

HOW TO WIN
You are a shrewd real-estate tycoon with an eye for investing in hotel chains.
Each time a hotel chain gets acquired, big money will be paid out to the top
shareholders. The player who makes the most money by buying and selling
hotel chain stocks wins!


SETUP
1. Place the gameboard in the center of all players.
2. Place the building tiles facedown next to the gameboard and mix them well.
3. Choose a player to be the banker. This player will pass out stocks and
handle money exchanges throughout the game. The banker places the
seven headquarters buildings and the stock cards, separated by hotel
chain, in the stock market tray as shown.
4. The banker gives each player $6,000 each.
6. Each player gets one stockholder info card and places it in front of them.
As a group, decide whether stockholder bonuses will be paid to the top
TWO stockholders during a merger.
8. Decide who will go first. To do so, each player draws a building tile from
the facedown pile and puts it faceup on the matching letter/number space
on the gameboard. The player who plays the tile closest to 1A goes first,
and play moves to the left. (9A is closer to 1A than 1B is.) Leave the tiles on
the gameboard. (Note that if two or more of these tiles are adjacent to
each other, they are considered independent. If an additional tile is added
later, they may become a hotel chain.)
9. Each player draws six building tiles and stands the tiles up in front of them
so other players can’t see the tiles.


HOW TO PLAY
On your turn, you’ll perform the following three actions.
1. Place a building tile on its matching space.
2. Buy up to three stocks in any active hotel chains.
3. Draw a new building tile from the facedown pile.
You’ll find a more detailed description of each action below.
1. Place a Building Tile
The tiles represent new hotels. Each turn, you will add one to the game board.
Choose one of your building tiles, and place it on its matching space on the
gameboard. For example, the 1A building tile goes on space 1A on the gameboard.
When you place a building tile, one of the following things will happen:
YOU ADD AN INDEPENDENT BUILDING
If you place a building tile on a space with no
building tiles adjacent to it, you’ve simply placed
a building. Nothing else happens.
YOU FOUND A HOTEL CHAIN
If you place a building tile next to any number of building tiles that aren’t
already part of a hotel chain, you’ll found a new hotel chain. Those building tiles
are now considered a founded hotel chain.
You place building tile 6F next to
building tile 7F. The adjacent building
tiles form a hotel chain.
Here you place a building tile between
two independent building tiles. The three
adjacent building tiles form a hotel chain.

Immediately do the following:
1. Choose a headquarters building from
the stock market tray, and place it on
any of the new connected building tiles.
2. Take one stock card for that hotel chain.
This is your founder’s bonus!
If all seven headquarters buildings are already in play on the board,
you may not place a building tile that will found a new hotel chain. You may,
however, be able to play that tile later in the game if a headquarters
building becomes available or if the tile would add on to an existing hotel
chain or cause a merger.
YOU MAKE A HOTEL CHAIN LARGER
If you place a building tile next to any tile that is already part of a hotel chain,
you have simply added a tile to that chain, making it one tile larger.
The building tile you’re placing
is adjacent to an existing hotel
chain, so that chain grows larger.

YOU MERGE TWO OR MORE HOTEL CHAINS TOGETHER
If you place a building tile so that it connects two or more hotel chains, those
hotel chains will merge and the smaller chain—that is, the one with fewer
building tiles—becomes part of the larger chain. Remember, a hotel chain
with eleven or more building tiles is safe and cannot be absorbed by another
chain. Two safe hotel chains cannot merge.
The building tile you’re placing is
adjacent to building tiles in two different
hotel chains, so those two chains merge.
The building tile you’re placing is adjacent
to building tiles in three different hotel
chains, so all three merge together.
The building tile you’re placing is not
adjacent to any building tiles—it is
on a diagonal—so there is no merger.
But it will greatly increase the chances
of those hotel chains merging in
the future.

When you merge two hotel chains, immediately do the following:
1. Count the building tiles in each of the hotel chains involved. Do not count
the building tile that caused the merger. You may temporarily flip the
merging tile over so it is not accidentally counted. Once the merger is
complete, flip it faceup.
2. Remove the headquarters building from the smaller hotel chain and
return it to the game tray. The smaller hotel chain has been acquired, and
its building tiles are now part of the larger chain. If the hotel chains are the
same size, the mergemaker gets to decide which chain survives and which
one is acquired.
3. Distribute stockholder bonuses for the acquired hotel chain as described
on the next page. Note that there are no payouts for stock in the surviving
hotel chain, but the value of its stock may go up because the chain has
grown larger due to the merger.
4. Starting with the mergemaker and moving clockwise, players with stock
in the hotel chain that was acquired must do one or more of the following
with that stock:
1. Keep it in hand with the hope that a new hotel chain with the same
name will be founded later in the game.
2. Sell it back to the bank for the price indicated on the info card. The
hotel chain’s name and size determine the selling price.
3. Trade it in. For every two stocks from the acquired hotel chain, you get
one stock in the surviving chain from the stock market tray.
When you merge three or more hotel chains, the largest one survives and the
smaller ones are acquired. The mergemaker breaks any ties. The smaller
corporations are dealt with, one at a time, from largest to smallest.
Stockholder bonuses are paid out as described on the next page. Stock in
each acquired hotel chain is kept, sold, or traded, as described above. As
usual, the mergemaker goes first.
2. Buy Stocks
After you place a building tile and resolve any mergers, you may (you don’t
have to) buy up to three stocks in any active hotel chains from the stock market
tray. You can buy multiple stocks in the same hotel chain and/or buy stocks in
multiple chains during the same turn. Stock prices depend on the name and
size of the hotel chain. When purchasing stock, players must announce what
they are buying and how much they are paying. This is to help ensure that
players don’t make mistakes with stock costs. At any time during the game, a
player may ask how many stocks are in the stock market tray for any hotel chain.

DETERMINING THE PRICE OF STOCKS
To determine the price of a given stock:
1. Find the name of that hotel chain
on the stockholder info card.
2. Look down the “Hotel Chain
Size” column for that hotel chain
and find the numbered row that
corresponds with the number
of building tiles currently in that
hotel chain.
3. Read across that row to find the
“Buy/Sell Price Per Stock Card.”
Do this for each hotel chain you’d like to buy stock in; then, pay the
appropriate amount to the bank.
RUNNING OUT OF MONEY
It is possible to run out of money. If you run out of money, you may still place
and draw building tiles each turn, but you may not purchase stock. You must
wait until you receive a stockholder bonus or sell stocks in a hotel chain that has
been acquired to get money. You can’t sell stocks in an active hotel chain at any
point in the game, and no loans—either from players or the bank—are allowed.
Avoid running out of money by investing wisely. You don’t have to be the
majority stockholder in every corporation in order to win the game.
3. Draw a Building Tile
At the end of your turn, draw a building tile from the facedown pile.
At the end of your turn, you may also check your building tiles to see if
you have any that are unplayable. An unplayable building tile is one that
would merge two or more safe hotel chains (which is not possible). Set any
unplayable building tiles you have to the side (faceup) so they are out of play.
Then, draw that many building tiles from the facedown pile. If you receive new
unplayable building tiles, you must wait until your next turn to discard them.
Note that building tiles that would form an eighth corporation are not
considered unplayable, but cannot be played until there is a headquarters
building available off the gameboard.

DISTRIBUTING STOCKHOLDER BONUSES
When you are determining stockholder bonuses for mergers, the merging
building tile does not add to the size of either hotel chain. To determine
stockholder bonuses, do the following:
1. Determine who gets a bonus: Each player reveals the exact number of
stocks they own in the hotel chain that was acquired. The players with the
most, second-most, and third-most stocks are the primary, secondary,
and tertiary stockholders, respectively. Players with no stocks in that hotel
chain do not receive a bonus.
A SINGLE STOCKHOLDER
Classic Mode: If only one player owns stock in the acquired hotel chain,
that player receives the primary and secondary bonuses.
Tycoon Mode: If only one player owns stock in the acquired hotel chain,
that player receives the primary and tertiary bonuses.
A TIE
Classic Mode: If there is a tie for primary shareholder, add the primary and
secondary bonuses together, divide it evenly, and pay the bonus (rounded
up to the nearest hundred) to the tied players. The secondary shareholder
gets no bonus.
If there is a tie for secondary shareholder, split the bonus among the tied
players, rounding up to the nearest hundred.

2. The banker pays out bonuses from the bank according to the
stockholder info card. Here’s how to read the info card:
1. Find the name of the hotel chain that was just acquired.
2. Look down the “Hotel Chain Size” column for that hotel chain and
find the numbered row that corresponds with the number of building
tiles that were in that chain.
3. Read across that row to find the primary, secondary, and tertiary
shareholder bonuses for that hotel chain and size.
Here are some examples of how to determine who gets what bonus.
For the examples on the next page, imagine that Festival and Imperial have
merged. Festival was the larger hotel chain because it had seven tiles and Imperial
had only five, so Imperial has been acquired and its tiles become part of Festival.

A STANDARD MERGER
To determine stockholder bonuses, the players now count how many stocks
they each own in Imperial. Liz owns three, Charlie owns two, and Courtney
owns none. Because Liz has the most stocks, she gets the primary stockholder
bonus. Charlie has the second-most, so he gets the secondary bonus.
Courtney has no stocks in Imperial, so she gets no bonus. According to the
chart on the stockholder info cards (see previous page), because Liz owns the
most stock in Imperial and Imperial had five tiles, her primary shareholder
bonus is 7000. Charlie’s secondary bonus is 5000.
Sometimes, multiple players will have the same number of stocks in a hotel
chain that has been acquired, and there will be a tie. Here are some examples
of how to determine stockholder bonuses for ties using the above example
merger between Festival and Imperial in a Tycoon Mode game.
A TIE FOR PRIMARY STOCKHOLDER
Imagine Liz owns three stocks in Imperial, Charlie owns three, and Courtney
owns one. Liz and Charlie are tied for the primary bonus. Because Imperial
had five tiles, the primary stockholder bonus is 7000 and the secondary
stockholder bonus is 5000. Because they are tied, Liz and Charlie add the
primary and secondary bonuses together (this equals 12000), and they split
that value to get 6000 each. Courtney has the third highest stock count in
Imperial, so she only gets the tertiary bonus of 3500.
A TIE FOR SECONDARY STOCKHOLDER
Imagine Liz owns three stocks in Imperial, Charlie owns two, and Courtney
owns two. Because Imperial had five tiles, the primary bonus is 7000, and
Liz gets that. The secondary bonus is 5000 and the tertiary bonus is 3500.
Because they were tied for second, Charlie and Courtney add the secondary
and tertiary bonuses together (this equals 8500), and they split that value to
get 4300 each. If a fourth player, Amanda, owned one stock, that player would
have the fourth highest stock count in Imperial and would not get a bonus.
A TIE FOR TERTIARY STOCKHOLDER
Imagine Liz owns four stocks in Imperial, Charlie owns three, Courtney owns
one, and Amanda also owns one. Liz gets the primary bonus of 7000. Charlie
gets the secondary bonus of 5000. Because they are tied for the third highest
stock count in Imperial, Courtney and Amanda split the tertiary bonus, which
is 3500. So Courtney and Amanda each get a bonus of 1800.

THE END OF THE GAME
The game ends when one player announces during their turn that either all
active hotel chains are safe or that one active hotel chain is made up of 41 or
more building tiles. A player does not have to announce that the game is over
if it is to their advantage to keep playing—for example, to enlarge a hotel
chain they own stock in. After making this announcement, that player finishes
their turn as normal, then the game ends.
As soon as the game ends, do the following:
1. Pay out primary, secondary (and tertiary, if playing Tycoon Mode) stockholder
bonuses for all active hotel chains according to the stockholder info card,
the way you would pay out bonuses after a merger.
2. Players sell all their stocks back to the bank at a price determined by the
hotel chain’s name and size, as noted on the info card. Stocks in a hotel
chain not on the board are worth nothing.
3. Each player adds up their money, and the player with the most money
wins! If there is a tie, the victory is shared.
RARE CASES
Founding a Hotel Chain with Zero Stock Available
If a player places a building tile that would found a hotel chain, but all of that
hotel chain’s stock is already taken, the founding player gets the founding
bonus in cash payment equal to the value of the stock at the time of founding.
Incorrect Building Tile Placement
If a tile is placed in the wrong spot on the board and discovered on the turn it
was placed, then it’s moved to the correct location. When an incorrect placement
is discovered from a prior turn, that tile will remain in its current location. If the
correct tile is held by a player, then exchange it for the incorrect tile.

